+++
title = "Teaching"
+++

Before joining UT, I was a sessional instructor and TA at various universities
in Canada.  As I'm working as a graduate research assistant with my advisor
I've not been involved with any teaching at UT, but I hope to one day find the
excuse to return to the front of the class.

## Ancient history

### MacEwan University

At MacEwan, I was an instructor in the [Department of Computer
Science](https://www.macewan.ca/academics/academic-departments/computer-science/).
I redesigned _CMPT 220: Unix, Scripting, and Other Tools_. My goal was to push
as many topics usually relegated to upper-level operating systems courses into
a _de facto_ introductory course with minimal prerequisites.  It turns out: we
were able to dig deeply into concepts as diverse as the process lifecycle,
signals, containerization, binary exploitation, and metaprogramming using the
usual straightforward Unix primitives!  [The course
material](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1a8YYcprmNUiA61SuZvRFcw7IshJ7ETLYiqlyteu8_tw/edit)
was well-received by students, and even made the rounds on certain colour-coded
tech aggregator websites, which was pretty cool to see.

I also developed a streamlined summer curriculum for _CMPT 201: Programming
Methodology_, the introductory C language course.  CMPT 201 has the unfortunate
reputation among students of being the "weed-out" course, and the accelerated
schedule in the summer term doesn't help student learning nor anxiety.  To that
end, I dropped the ancient, overpriced textbook in favour of a [free, modern C
resource](https://beej.us/guide/bgc/pdf/bgc_usl_c_1.pdf), corrected numerous
inaccuracies in the existing course material, and exised any material that
stood in the way of students becoming formidable systems programmers.

Lastly, I worked with the instructor of _CMPT 360: Introduction to Operating
Systems_ on a new sequence of labs and assignments.

### University of Toronto

I was brought on to teach a last-minute summer offering of [CSC324: Principles
of Programming Languages](http://individual.utoronto.ca/nbtaylor/csc324_s2020)
at the University of Toronto (a different UT!).  This was my first time
teaching a course entirely on my own; but, seeing as how feedback from students
included _"You are one of the best professors I had in three years at the U of
T"_, I like to think that the university made a good choice!

### UBC

For UBC's then-brand new [Racket-based introductory CS
course](https://web.archive.org/web/20090918115923/http://sites.google.com/site/ubccpsc1102009w1/),
I taught lab sessions, held scheduled office hours, and on occasion, lectured
during instructor absences.  For my work I was awarded a graduate TA award by
the University (a gold star!)
